# OPA deployment for Trino

## OPA

### OPA deployment

To deploy OPA with the helm chart:

```sh
helm install --create-namespace -n opa-ns opa opa-server
```

The chart will apply a deployment starting an OPA pod containing an OPA server.

### OPA deployment without OPAL

The OPA helm chart is made for opa deployment with optionally a service configuration if you want yo use an OPA bundle stored on an external storage like SeaweedFS. In this case the configuration must be set by enabling in the values.yaml:

```yaml
config:
  enabled: true
```

which creates a config map with the configuration you chose and uncomment:

```yaml
volumes:
  # Volume containing configration
  configVolume:
    name: config
    configMapName: opa-config
    mountPath: /config
```

Which creates a volume attached to the OPA pod and uncomment as well `- "--config-file=/config/config.yaml"` in `opaArgs:` so that the configuration is taken into account by the OPA server.

The external storage might need OPA to authenticate to itself. In this case set the credentials in environmental variables as is commented in the values.yaml

## Opal

### Opal prerequisites

Before deploying Opal, an ssh private and public key must be generated as well as a master token for securing the Opal server and the Opal client needs a client JWT token generated by the OKDP server to access it. Therefore, the opal-secrets helm chart has been added to create all mentioned above as Kubernetes secrets. Execute it the following way:

```sh
helm install -n opa-ns opal-secrets opal-secrets
```

### Opal configuration

The values.yaml in the opal folder contains the standard configuration with a test policy repository.

- Change the variable `server.policyRepoUrl` with the url of your repository.
- Set `server.policyRepoSshKey` with the ssh private key allowed to access your repository if it is set to private (not recommended to write it in the value.yaml).
- If you prefer using a webhook to get the policies which is at the time only working with GitHub, create first a webhook in the remote repository and then set `server.OPAL_POLICY_REPO_WEBHOOK_SECRET` with the secret generated in Github and set `server.pollingInterval=0` so that no polling takes place (not recommended to write it in the value.yaml). Moreover, if you chose the webhook, the Opal-server must be exposed on the internet and therefore, an ingress or gateway api must be joined to its service.
- If you chose to have a Postgres DBMS as external datasource, set `image.client.repository:quay.io/okdp/opal-client-standalone` and `image.client.tag:0.9.4-1.0-postgres` to the image build with the postgres fetcher. Set `client.extraEnv.OPAL_FETCH_PROVIDER_MODULES: opal_common.fetcher.providers,opal_fetcher_postgres.provider` to have the fetcher provier modules and set `server.dataConfigSources.config.entries` with your datasource entries as shown in the comment of the values.yaml. Tables and data must be preexisting in the database before the deployment of Opal.

### Opal deployment

1. Download opal helm chart

    ```sh
    helm repo add permitio https://permitio.github.io/opal-helm-chart
    helm repo update
    ```

2. Install Opal

    ```sh
    helm install -n opa-ns -f opal/values.yaml --version 0.0.30 opal permitio/opal
    ```
